# Express  
---
### Content
1. [PUT VS PATCH ](#put-vs-patch )
1. [Mock an API](#mock-an-api)
1. [Swagger VS APIDoc.js](#swagger-vs-apidocjs)
1. [SOAP VS ReST](#soap-vs-rest)
---
## PUT VS PATCH  
Both `PUT` ans `PATCH` are used to update data within `CRUD` web application. However, `PUT` either creates or replaces the resource at the specified **URI**. The body of the request message specifies the resource to be created or updated. While, `PATCH` performs a partial update of a resource. The request body specifies the set of changes to apply to the resource.  
---
## Mock an API  

1. [Postman](https://www.postman.com/)  
1. [Mocky.io ](https://designer.mocky.io/)
1. [Moockoon](https://mockoon.com/)  
---
## Swagger VS APIDoc.js  

aspect | Swagger | APIDoc.js
--- | --- | ---
Popularity | more popular | less popular
Consistency | more consistent | less consistent
Implementation complexity |  required documentation content on implemented method | required documentation content on implemented method  
Maintenance | you can limit changes | have to modify documentation for each affected method/endpoints if service changed, but by implementing apidocjs you can isolate the layer.  
Other benefits | Because swagger use plain .json that could be parsed through programing language, thus we can get advantage of various other 3rd parties in order to create http client and more. | XXX  
Future | XXX | Due to popularity of swagger, apidocjs provide information about apidoc-swagger converter so we can switch apidoc to swagger anytime.
  
- When a successful API call is made a statues code `200` is sent.
- When an unsuccessful API call is made , many status code can be sent in relation to the cause. like:
  1
  - 308
  - 204
  - 404
  - 403
  - or 500 
---
## SOAP VS ReST
- **SOAP** is a protocol which was designed before REST and came into the picture. The main idea behind designing SOAP was to ensure that programs built on different platforms and programming languages could exchange data in an easy manner. SOAP stands for Simple Object Access Protocol.  
- **REST** was designed specifically for working with components such as media components, files, or even objects on a particular hardware device. Any web service that is defined on the principles of REST can be called a RestFul web service. A Restful service would use the normal HTTP verbs of GET, POST, PUT and DELETE for working with the required components. REST stands for Representational State Transfer.  

SOAP | REST
--- | ---
Simple Object Access Protocol | Representational State Transfer
a protocol  | an architectural pattern
uses service interfaces to expose its functionality to client applications | uses Uniform Service locators to access to the components on the hardware device
needs more bandwidth for its usage | doesn’t need much bandwidth  
only works with XML formats | work with plain text, XML, HTML and JSON.
cannot make use of REST |  can make use of SOAP  

### Resources
1. [HTTP response status codes]()
1. [SOAP Vs. REST: Difference between Web API Services](https://www.guru99.com/comparison-between-web-services.html)
1. [apidoc vs swagger for node app](https://www.asptricks.net/2019/04/apidoc-vs-swagger-for-node-app.html)